Add documentation about hosting gRPC in non-ASP.NET Core projects (#30390)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/grpc/aspnetcore.md

:::moniker-end

## Host gRPC in non-ASP.NET Core projects

> An ASP.NET Core gRPC server is usually created from the gRPC template. The project file created by the template uses `Microsoft.NET.SDK.Web` as the SDK:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An ASP.NET Core gRPC server is typically created from the gRPC template. The project file created by the template uses `Microsoft.NET.SDK.Web` as the SDK:
```

[!code-xml[](~/grpc/aspnetcore/Server-web.csproj?highlight=1)]

The `Microsoft.NET.SDK.Web` SDK value automatically adds a reference to the ASP.NET Core framework. The reference allows the app to use ASP.NET Core types required to host a server.

> It's also possible to add a server to existing non-ASP.NET Core projects. Add the `Microsoft.AspNetCore.App` framework to the project file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add a gRPC server to non-ASP.NET Core projects with the following project file settings:
```

> [!code-xml[](~/grpc/aspnetcore/Server.csproj?highlight=7)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[!code-xml[](~/grpc/aspnetcore/Server.csproj?highlight=1,7)]
```

Reviewer: Highlight change from above

The preceding project file:

> * Adds a framework reference to `Microsoft.AspNetCore.App`. The framework reference allows non-ASP.NET Core apps, such as Windows Services, WPF apps, or WinForms apps to use ASP.NET Core APIs. The app can now use ASP.NET Core APIs to start an ASP.NET Core server.

Author: ```suggestion
* Adds a framework reference to `Microsoft.AspNetCore.App`. The framework reference allows non-ASP.NET Core apps, such as Windows Services, WPF apps, or WinForms apps to use ASP.NET Core APIs. The app can now use ASP.NET Core APIs to start an ASP.NET Core server. For more information about using the `Microsoft.AspNetCore.App` framework reference, see [Use the ASP.NET Core shared framework
](xref:fundamentals/target-aspnetcore#use-the-aspnet-core-shared-framework).
```

:::moniker-end

## Host gRPC in non-ASP.NET Core projects

An ASP.NET Core gRPC server is typically created from the gRPC template. The project file created by the template uses `Microsoft.NET.SDK.Web` as the SDK:

[!code-xml[](~/grpc/aspnetcore/Server-web.csproj?highlight=1)]

The `Microsoft.NET.SDK.Web` SDK value automatically adds a reference to the ASP.NET Core framework. The reference allows the app to use ASP.NET Core types required to host a server.

You can add a gRPC server to non-ASP.NET Core projects with the following project file settings:

[!code-xml[](~/grpc/aspnetcore/Server.csproj?highlight=1,7)]

The preceding project file:

> * Adds a framework reference to `Microsoft.AspNetCore.App`. The framework reference allows non-ASP.NET Core apps, such as Windows Services, WPF apps, or WinForms apps to use ASP.NET Core APIs. The app can now use ASP.NET Core APIs to start an ASP.NET Core server. For more information about using the `Microsoft.AspNetCore.App` framework reference, see [Use the ASP.NET Core shared framework
> ](xref:fundamentals/target-aspnetcore#use-the-aspnet-core-shared-framework).

Author: ```suggestion
* Adds a framework reference to `Microsoft.AspNetCore.App`. For more information, see [Use the ASP.NET Core shared framework](xref:fundamentals/target-aspnetcore#use-the-aspnet-core-shared-framework).
  * The framework reference allows non-ASP.NET Core apps, such as Windows Services, WPF apps, or WinForms apps to use ASP.NET Core APIs.
  * The app can now use ASP.NET Core APIs to start an ASP.NET Core server.
```

:::moniker-end

## Host gRPC in non-ASP.NET Core projects

An ASP.NET Core gRPC server is typically created from the gRPC template. The project file created by the template uses `Microsoft.NET.SDK.Web` as the SDK:

[!code-xml[](~/grpc/aspnetcore/Server-web.csproj?highlight=1)]

The `Microsoft.NET.SDK.Web` SDK value automatically adds a reference to the ASP.NET Core framework. The reference allows the app to use ASP.NET Core types required to host a server.

You can add a gRPC server to non-ASP.NET Core projects with the following project file settings:

[!code-xml[](~/grpc/aspnetcore/Server.csproj?highlight=1,7)]

The preceding project file:

> * Adds a framework reference to `Microsoft.AspNetCore.App`. For more information, see [Use the ASP.NET Core shared framework](xref:fundamentals/target-aspnetcore#use-the-aspnet-core-shared-framework).
>   * The framework reference allows non-ASP.NET Core apps, such as Windows Services, WPF apps, or WinForms apps to use ASP.NET Core APIs.
>   * The app can now use ASP.NET Core APIs to start an ASP.NET Core server.
> * Adds gRPC requirements:
>   * NuGet package reference to [`Grpc.AspNetCore`](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Grpc.AspNetCore).
>   * `.proto` file.
> 

Author: ```suggestion
* Adds a framework reference to `Microsoft.AspNetCore.App`.
  * The framework reference allows non-ASP.NET Core apps, such as Windows Services, WPF apps, or WinForms apps to use ASP.NET Core APIs.
  * The app can now use ASP.NET Core APIs to start an ASP.NET Core server.
* Adds gRPC requirements:
  * NuGet package reference to [`Grpc.AspNetCore`](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Grpc.AspNetCore).
  * `.proto` file.

For more information about using the `Microsoft.AspNetCore.App` framework reference, see [Use the ASP.NET Core shared framework](xref:fundamentals/target-aspnetcore#use-the-aspnet-core-shared-framework).
```
